# ClearPeaks Python module

This is the ClearPeaks repository template configured with cookiecutter to ease the process of creating a new Python 3.7 project, following quality code guidelines such PEP8, and best practices.

In this documentation you will find what is the purpose of each file and folder in this repository.

# 🌲 Project structure

There are many folders and files in the template, maybe it's a bit overwhelming if you have no idea what so ever; but don't worry, here we are going to explain what is each thing!

## 📂 Folders

### bin

In this folder you must place all binary files your project might have such .exe files.

- You can delete this folder if you are not using it.

### data

In this folder you must place all the external files such CSV, JSON that you are using maybe as an input or output.

- You can delete this folder if you are not using it.

### docs

In this folder you must place all the documentation related to your code.

- You can delete this folder if you are not using it.

### scripts

In this folder you must place all the auxiliar scripts you use in your project such bash scripts.

- You can delete this folder if you are not using it.

### tests

In this folder you must place all your tests.

- You really thought you can remove this folder, didn't you? Shame.
- Further info: [random blog](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/mocking-in-python-with-pytest-mock-part-i-6203c8ad3606)

### {project_slug}

In this folder is placed all your code.

- **config/**: There is also a config folder where you must place your configuration settings for the environment. If you have multiple environments like `dev` and `prod`, you might have here 2 configuration files with each specific env data. Recomended .yml files for configs.
- **\_\_init\_\_.py**: These are required to make Python treat directories containing the file as packages. This prevents directories with a common name, such as string, unintentionally hiding valid modules that occur later on the module search path. In the simplest case, \_\_init\_\_.py can just be an empty file, but it can also execute initialization code for the package or set the \_\_all\_\_ variable. This variable basically contains all the methods that can be imported from other packages.
- **\_\_main\_\_.py**: File being executed when running the package. Contains the main declaration. You can change its content except the main function declaration (the content obviously you can).
- **example.py**: Contains a dummy function example called in the main file. You can delete or rename the file if desired.

## 📝 Files

You shouldn't remove any file at all, all of them are configuration files. The only one you could possibly remove is the LICENSE if you don't want to LICENSE the code (ask your PM or TM about licensing).

### requirements.txt

File used by pip to install the project dependencies. It is autogenerated by executing `make freeze` (or `pip-compile --no-index --output-file requirements.txt setup.py`). To add dependencies, do it in the setup.py file.

### setup.py

Python file indicating the package mighte have been distributed with Distutils. Basically allows installing dependencies with a simple `pip install .`.

- You must place the requirements dependencies in the `install_requires` variable.

### Makefile

Makefile containing make instructions to ease the setup.

### Docker and docker-compose.yml

Files needed to dockerize your code, directly with Docker or Docker compose.

- You might need to adapt them depending on your project dependencies.

### README.md

Document containing the project guidelines to install, run and deploy the project. This file must be always be udpated with clear guidelines for the client (or other developer/consultant that joins the project).

### LICENSE

Autogenerated License among the predefined ones.

- You can remove it if you are not using any LICENSE.
- If you are using a LICENSE different from the predefined ones, let Maintainers know to include it in the default ones.

### .coverage .flake8 pyproject.toml pytest.ini

Are all configuration files that shouldn't be removed.

### pytest.ini

PyTest configuration file.

# 👍 Coding guidelines

It is *super hiper mega highly* recommended to check [CODING_GUIDELINES.md](../CODING_GUIDELINES.md).
